# Collage Builder

Collage builder is a small side project I developed to explore the Processing open source graphics library. A kinetic collage is generated by sprites which exert forces on each other as they collide. I used the first two chapters of The Nature of Code by Daniel Shiffman as a starting point. Processing offers a propriety IDE. However, Eclipse can also be used by importing the Processing core.jar file into a project's referenced libraries. 


## Summary

I have begun the project by writing a MySketch class which contains the main method and extends PApplet. This generates a window with a canvas on which to draw. A Mover class is used to model a generic sprite with position data and movement functionalities. 


## Current Functionality

On setup, an ArrayList of movers is generated. Movers are
initialized with random positions, velocities, mass and color. They also contain an ArrayList of past positions. Clicking on the canvas pauses the sketch and saves a jpg of the display.

## Possible Improvements

* Currently, the majority of the collision detection between two movers takes place inside of MySketch's draw method. I plan to move this logic inside of the Mover class. 
* Saving the collage could benefit from the ability to choose the file's name and directory.
* Mover sprites are currently just ellipses drawn at each past position. This could be greatly improved by the use of a more complex sprite, possibly a jpg or png image.


## Reference Links 
* Processing.org
* thenatureofcode.com
